LOVE OF BROTHERS

BY

KATHARINE TYNAN

Author of "The Middle Years," "The Years of the Shadows," "The West Wind," "Miss Gascoigne,"
etc., etc.

LONDON

CONSTABLE & COMPANY LTD.

1919

CONTENTS

  CHAP.

      I  O'GARAS OF CASTLE TALBOT
     II  PATSY REMEMBERS
    III  A TEA PARTY
     IV  FROM THE PAST
      V  THE HAVEN
     VI  STELLA
    VII  BRADY'S BULL
   VIII  SIR SHAWN SEES A GHOST
     IX  THE LETTER
      X  MRS. WADE
     XI  THE ONLY PRETTY RING-TIME
    XII  MOTHER-LOVE
   XIII  THE OLD LOVE
    XIV  STELLA GOES VISITING
     XV  THE SHADOW
    XVI  THE DEAD HAND
   XVII  MISS BRENNAN
  XVIII  THE DAUGHTER
    XIX  ANGER CRUEL AS DEATH
     XX  SIR SHAWN HAS A VISITOR
    XXI  STELLA IS SICK
   XXII  A SUDDEN BLOW
  XXIII  THE HOME-COMING
   XXIV  THE SICK WATCHERS
    XXV  IN WHICH TERRY FINDS A DEAD MAN
   XXVI  MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
  XXVII  THE STORY IS TOLD
 XXVIII  THE VIGIL
   XXIX  THE LAKH OF RUPEES

INTRODUCTORY

It was a night of bright moonlight that made for pitchy shadows under wall or tree.

Patsy Kenny was looking for the goat, she having broken her tether.  He had been driven forth
by his fierce old grandfather with threats of the most awful nature if he should return without
the goat.

The tears were not yet dry on Patsy's small face.  He had kneaded them in with his knuckles,
but the smears caused by the process were not visible in the moonlight, even if there had been
any one to see them. It was not only the hardship of being driven out when the meal of hot
potatoes was on the table, to search for that "ould divil" of a goat, and his sense of the
injustice which had put the blame of the goat's straying on to his narrow shoulders.  The old,
in Patsy's knowledge of them, were crabbed and unjust.  That was something for the young to
take in the day's work.  It was Patsy's fears of the supernatural that kept him creeping along
in the shadow of the hedge, now and again stopping to weep a little over his troubles, or to
listen fearfully like a frightened hare before going on again.

Why, close to the road by which he must go to seek the goat there was the tomb in which Captain
Hercules O'Hart lay buried.  People about Killesky did not take that road if they could help
it.  The tomb was a terror to all those who must pass the road by night, and to their horses
if they were riding or driving.  It was well known that no horse would pass by the tomb without
endeavouring to avoid it, and if forced or cajoled into accomplishing the passage, would emerge
trembling and sweating.  Some unimaginative person had suggested that the terror of the horses
was due to the thunder of the invisible waterfall where the river tumbled over its weir, just
below the Mount on which old Hercules had chosen to be buried.  The horses knew better than
that.  Nothing natural said the people would make a horse behave in such a way.  The dumb beast
knew what it saw and that was nothing good.

The anguish of Patsy's thoughts caused him suddenly to "bawl" as he would have put it himself.

"Isn't it an awful thing?" he asked, addressing the quiet bog-world under the moon, "to think
of a little lad like me havin' to be out in the night facin' all them ghosts and that ould
heart-scald of a man burnin' his knees at home be the fire?  What'll I do at all if that tormint
of a goat is up strayin' on the Mount?  It would be like what the divil 'ud do to climb up
there, unless it was to be the churchyard below, and all them ould bones stickin' up through
the clay.

"There isn't wan out this night but meself," he went on.  "It's awful to think of every wan
inside their houses an' me wanderin' about be me lone.  It isn't wan ghost but twinty I might
meet betune this an' the cross-roads, let alone fairies and pookas.  Won't I just welt the
divil out o' the oul' goat when I ketch her?"

