        Sometimes the captains of the larger steamboats would issue
invitations to the families for a soiree, when the excitement would
fill society for days.  The ladies would dress in their silks and laces
and the men spruce up in their frock coats and flowered waistcoats and
cross the gang plank into the kerosene-lighted steamboats and dance until
 morning.  Those were red letter days for Jefferson.  As a matter of
etiquette, when the steamboat was loaded and about to start back,
everybody would be at the levee to wave good-bye.  The side paddle would
turn and the hospitable captain would be up in the pilot house, waving
his cap in return until the churning side-wheel carried him around the
bend.

        New houses were dotting the town here and  there, some of them
large and handsome with spacious grounds.  Kerosene oil lamps were put
up to light the streets and an "Opera  House" was built, where many a
stock company came to play in tragedy or comedy.   Shakespeare's plays
were the favorites of the community and Jaffray and Renestine went
often to the theatre, accompanied by their two daughters, who were in
their advanced school-day years and able to appreciate it.  There were
two little sons added to their family circle; they remained asleep in
their trundle beds with old Aunt Caroline watching over them, as she
had watched over the little daughters.  Josiah had died right after the
war was over, but he lived to see his people freed and schools  opened
where they could be taught to read and write--a precious privilege.  He
had said to Aunt Caroline just before his last illness:  "Thanks be to
God that He has set the colored folks free, but thanks be to Him mosen
for gibbin' me a good marsa and missus who gibs me my close, my vittles
and my me'cine."

        The relation of the household servants to the Southern family
was that of trust and affection after their liberation.  In advanced
years, like old Aunt Caroline, the younger servants saved them
unnecessary steps and their days were happy and peaceful.

        Near the home which Renestine and Jaffrav occupied almost
touching the porch was a huge oak tree spreading wide shade around  it.
 Here the children played; or, if it was a rainy day, they carried
their precious dolls and drums into the latticed summer house built for
ornamentation and use in very hot weather, where woodbine and
honeysuckle ran along its diamond-shaped walls and hung thick and
colorful in great waves.  Jaffray loved his home and spared nothing
that would  make it comfortable and attractive.

        His days were very arduous now, as he had to learn the methods
of a government  position.  It appealed to him, though, for it was a
pursuit which required reading up on rules, laws and regulations, and
his bent was for books and instruction from them.  While his days
passed in attending to the business of the Post Office, his nights were
given to study and self-improvement.   He was never satisfied with what
he achieved; to learn and to know more and more was his ruling passion.
 Many citizens now called upon him for advice.  He would be asked to
speak when a new building was opened or a public movement was on foot.
They knew him to be generous and full of civic pride.  He belonged to
the Board of Aldermen and at one time was offered the office of Mayor.
He had the confidence and respect of all the inhabitants of the town
and his politeness and gentleness were the qualifications which made
them love him.

        He was a tall, spare figure, with black, well-set eyes, black
hair, now showing thin at the temples and somewhat bald; he had a short
black beard and moustache and his carriage was upright and dignified.
He could be stern, even severe, when things aroused his anger, and
nothing could touch his temper quicker than underhand dealings or a
mean act.  But his whole being was steeped with love of his kind and
sympathy with the poor.

        In the early days of Jefferson he and a friend bought a deed
for a cemetery and presented it to the Jewish community.  His home was
opened to social and political gatherings where his friends were sure
of a warm welcome.  Renestine was always the center of attraction of
these social affairs.  She was proud of her husband and flushed with
happiness when she saw him surrounded by admiring groups of men.

        At this time a new influence came into their lives.  It was a
fine old Frenchman, who had drifted down to Jefferson from Alabama,
where he had been a professor of piano teaching.  His name was
D'Archais, and by degrees they learned his history.  But the immediate
result of their meeting was to give their two little daughters, now
eight and ten years old, to him to be instructed in music.

        The history of this new friend was a romantic one.  During the
time of Louis Philippe he left Paris.  His property and title had been
taken by the revolutionists for he was an aristocrat, a Count, and he
found that he was safer with the ocean between him and his beloved
Paris.

        He landed in Mobile, Alabama, and used his accomplishments of
painting and music as a means of gaining a livelihood.  For many years
he worked in his profession and accumulated enough to lay aside.  This
he invested in cotton which was destroyed in a warehouse by fire.  It
was hard, but he began all over again and in the meantime married a
widow with a daughter.  This step-daughter won his complete affection,
and when she married he devoted himself to her two children, a girl and
a boy.  It was because of these two children that he came to Jefferson,
where they were then living.

        The music teacher was 70 years old when he came into the lives
of Jaffray and Renestine; a polished, grand old man of kingly soul and
manners.  The little daughters quickly learned to love their dear old
teacher and all his life time he was their dear friend.

        Jaffray was much impressed by this gentle nobleman and was glad
to have the privilege of his friendship for himself and his family.  He
found that he was easily tired in these days and welcomed nightfall
when he could sit on the porch in the twilight of summer and feel the
peace of evening creep on apace.  Often Mr. D'Archais would join him
and chat about travel and the fall and rise of political parties in
France.

        "I left France after the fall of Louis Philippe," he said, "and
came to America.  My property was confiscated and I arrived here
penniless.  A friend of mine had gone to Mobile, Alabama, some years
before, and I resolved to follow him.  I began life over again and took
a position in a young ladies' academy there to teach piano.  I had
taken lessons from renowned musicians in Paris, the same as taught
Napoleon's sister, Pauline, and this was my only means now of making a
living.

        "I did very well, lived comfortably and saved a little besides,
so that when the war broke out I had invested in cotton which was in a
warehouse waiting to be sold.  A large fire destroyed the warehouse
with its contents, leaving me penniless once more, as there was not a
dollar of insurance on it.

