        "In the meantime my friend had died leaving his family--wife
and daughter--in my care.  I decided to carry out his wish on his
deathbed and married his wife soon after.  His daughter became my joy
and happiness.  She was docile, ma foi, so perfect, that in a few
years, when she married, I was irreconcilable."  Here the music master
would stop, let his face drop into his big, white, soft hands for a
moment and then go on with his story.  "She died three years after her
marriage, leaving two children, a boy and a girl.  These children were
adopted by people here in this state and I followed.  Jefferson was
recommended to me as a good place to begin a class in music.  I am not
sorry I came as I have made friends and in my old age I can look
forward to peace and a few devoted pupils to brighten the days."  Many
times during his recital he would exclaim: "Mon Dieu, mon dieu, I have
seen many trials and tribulations."

        Jaffray was always sorry to see Mr. D'Archais leave; his
personality and story were romantic and picturesque.  Long into the
shadows of the night he would sit watching the stars come out one by
one, thinking of the troublous life of the nobleman and simple music
teacher.

        In the Autumn Jaffray took to his bed utterly worn out and grew
very ill, so ill that the family doctor felt a great deal of concern
about his symptoms.  He instructed that Jaffray be kept very quiet on a
low diet and stimulants, to be given every few hours.  This treatment
benefited Jaffray so that he was able to sit up in a favorite arm chair
now and then and listen to Charles Dickens' story, "Our Mutual Friend,"
then running as a serial in Harper's Magazine, read to him by his
little gray-eyed daughter now ten years old.

        At the close of the reading one morning he said:  "What a great
man!  I'd rather die to-day and leave behind  me the fame of Charles
Dickens than live to be a hundred years old."

        Much encouraged by Jaffray's condition, Renestine took fresh
hope and went about her daily occupation with more energy.  She knew
Jaffray's tender affection for his children and when on his good days
he had been made comfortable in his big arm chair the two young
daughters, Lola and Ena, and their little brothers, Lester, Andrew and
Frank, were allowed to come into his room and be near him, the infant
son Frank resting in his arms, Lola standing by like a little mother
watching over them all.

        Other days he would look out of the window and watch the big
oak tree standing near, with its leaves turning brown, shaking in the
wind.  Winter was turning the vines on the summer house into lifeless
twists of runners and bending the rose hushes until the petals were
strewn about the ground.

        It was not until the first week in November that Renestine
noticed that Jaffray was not as strong as usual.  He kept to his bed
now altogether, and his great heart seemed to speak to her of what was
uppermost there--the parting; after only thirteen years of wedded life
the end had come.  His little Queen Esther with the rosebuds on her
gown!

        In his last moments he said to a friend:  "What does it matter
whether a man lives a little longer or not?  It is only the loved ones
he leaves that matter."

        At his death the city closed the places of  business by
proclamation of the Mayor, and the long line of followers at his bier
to the little cemetery he had given testified to the love his fellow
men bore him.

        Renestine was crushed.  Her five children were to be lived for,
of course, but how could  she face the long years before her?  She was
young, inexperienced, unused to the world and its ways.  She was
overwhelmed by her  fate.  The assets of a generous man at his death
are debts and some friends.  Had it not been for the advice and
devotion of a few friends, Renestine would have gone down in the black
waters that were now surging  around her.  The Post Office was looked
after until she could find strength in body and mind to assume the
duties of Post Mistress to which she was appointed.  When she entered
the door that first morning it was as a broken spirit without any idea
of what she was about to undertake.  The task was serious and exacting,
she realized, but how to grasp its thousand details?  Her master would
be the U. S. Government, an uncompromising, stern and bloodless one.

        Not many years before, this little woman was an immigrant
child, landing with timid step on strange soil.  To-day she was ushered
into the important office of Government Mail and Money matters, one of
the most responsible positions in the country.

        With her usual courage and determination to learn, Renestine
set about the long figures of quarterly returns and register reports,
money order and stamp reports, making up and distributing mail, prompt
deliveries and sending out of mail.  Her pride in her new life
responded to the demands made upon her and she went forward.  Unafraid
now, for she had a grasp of the difficulties, she bent her work.  She
pored over her monthly and quarterly returns in the quiet of night, and
over and over again she wrote and figured until she understood and
could make them out correctly.  She was encouraged by her friends, and
complimented by the bankers and merchants in the city for her
successful efforts.

        The first year was a long trial to Renestine.  Her children
were young and needed her care and guidance as well as the new
occupation.  But the little mother was all the busier when she returned
home in the evening.  With a divine strength to perform and serve, she
labored.

        The education of each child was followed patiently, eagerly,
unceasingly, by her.  Music and languages, besides the fundamentals,
were to be given to each.

        The bodies were clothed by her flying fingers at night.  What a
boon ready-to-wear would have been to this little mother.  Not a boy's
garment could be had unless it was the handiwork of the household.

        One evening, many years afterward, Renestine returned to her
home with her sixteenth commission in her hand. She had served the
public of Jefferson faithfully and efficiently and the people had
honored her.  During these years her elder daughter had married but
only lived a year after her marriage.  This was another searing sorrow
and for many days seemed to consume her.  Now her second daughter was
about to become the wife of a noble man who had long wished to wed her
and take her back with him to make their home in New York City.

        This evening she sat in the midst of her little family and
recalled many scenes of her life. She was still a young woman,
forty-eight, and she intended sending her resignation to Washington.  She
was about to leave Jefferson and follow her daughter to New York where
there were better opportunities for the advancement of her three sons.

        The following day she went with her prospective son-in-law and her
daughter to pay a farewell visit to Mr. D'Archais at his little
two-roomed house.  The old man rose with his arms outstretched to meet
them and his "little girl" was soon enclosed in them. On parting he
turned to her soon-to-be husband and said:

        "Make her happy.  Make my little girl happy," and held his hand
affectionately in his own.

        So it was that Renestine, the little immigrant girl, became a
superb woman of deeds, a wonderful American mother whose grandchildren
have fought in this last war to win democracy for the world!

THE END